# Machine-Learning-for-Security-Operations

- The NLTK Speech Tagging folder contains a python file that reads a presidential debate text file and creates a pandas dataframe with the president and the statement they made during a debate. The script also preprocesses the text by removing special characters and stop words and creates a predictive/supervised learning machine learning model using KNN in Scikit learn module to predict which presidential candidate made the statement.

- The NBclassifier.py script leverages the pre-labeled male and female name files from the NLTK library to create a supervised/predictive machine learning algorithm to predict whether a name belongs to a male or female. The script performs several feature engineering and feature extraction tasks to extract more information from each name in order to train and test the models accuracy in correctly predicting names.

- The sentimentAnalysis folder contains 2 jupyter notebook py scripts. Both scripts read a csv file with sentiment data regarding to 1) global warming and 2) spam emails. The scripts preprocesses the data by removing special characters and stop words, drops unneccesary columns, and performs feature engineering tasks to extract more information from the data. Finally, the script performs sentiment analysing using the K-Nearest Neighbor classification model from Scikit learn module in python 3.8. The second script also uses the yellow brick library to provide a classification report with precision, recall and f1 scores of the KNN model.

- The Fake News folder contains a jupyter notebook script that reads csv file with a list of news with the title, subject, date and the label of fake or real news. The script then performs preprocessesing tasks to remove special characters, stop words and unneccesary columns. It also explodes the date column into month, day and year columns separately. The script performs feature engineering tasks to extract more information from the text, such as the number of positive/negative words present in the text as well as the number of POS Tags available in the text using the NLTK library. Finally, the script splits the data into a train/test split and develops a Support Vector Machines (SVM) machine learning algorithm to train the data. Finally, the script outputs a classification report with accuracy, precision, f1 and recall. 
